---
layout: post
title: Monkey week 2
excerpt: "GSoC 2014 Week 2."
modified: 2014-06-1
tags: [week2, gsoc2014]
comments: true
---

## Intro

I spent this week mostly on investigating and understanding how the Monkey library is implemented, while trying to fix the 2 failing tests from the library test suite, [dual-contexts](https://github.com/monkey/monkey/blob/master/tests/lib/dual-contexts.c) and [ip-ban](https://github.com/monkey/monkey/blob/master/tests/lib/ip-ban.c).

I created a [branch](https://github.com/kaspersky/monkey/tree/gsoc) in my fork of monkey, reserved for the work related to Monkey library as part of GSoC.


## dual-contexts

This test was designed to test whether it is possible to start multiple Monkey servers in the same program (same process address space, more precisely). It crashes drastically.

The reason is the global state present in Monkey, which includes (at least) configuration and schedulers. I was able to remove the global configuration (as an exercise, you can see the monstrosity [here](https://github.com/kaspersky/monkey/commit/efcf8bad52489d17aa4fe53c35a0a63f4a2e76e1)), which resulted in `struct server_config` passed around by almost every function. I realised in the process that a global configuration (which is often immutable, or at least a part of it) isn't the real problem.

A more complex problem is the scheduler. In order to start multiple servers (named *contexts* in the library) each context should have a separate scheduler. Another way is to keep global scheduler, but to add support for listening on multiple sockets for clients and share the scheduler.

Either way, that would add more flexibility to Monkey. Eliminating global state is not trivial, after a discussion with my mentor, I'll allocate a couple of days in the beginning of the next week to research this in more detail.

## ip-ban

This was testing the possibility to add an acceptance criteria for connections (the library allows filtering by client ip or requested url, or both), through a hook during `MK_PLUGIN_STAGE_10`, that is just after connection was accepted.

The bug was that Monkey, after banning the connection, did not close the client socket, leaving the client to wait undefinitely for a response that would never come.

After some debugging, it was figured out that after detecting that a client should be banned (in `mk_sched_register_client`, `mk_conn_close` is invoker, which closes the connection only if it was registered, but at this stage, it wasn't registered yet, so the socket doesn't get closed.


## Minor library issues at first glance

The first thing to discover at the beginning of the week, was that the library was broken. It so happens that sometimes one makes a commit, without running the library test suite. Interestingly, this time I'm the one to blame.

While browsing through code, it seemed to me that the library is somehow detached from Monkey. There are separated routines for reading the configuration, or for initializing the server (e.g. `mk_server_loop` and `mklib_run`). Indeed, the behaviour can be a bit different when invoking Monkey directly or through the library, but totally separated routines introduce code duplication, which is prone to errors.

## Next week

Next week I will try to make Monkey able to run multiple servers, remove the issues mentioned above and start to define a mechanism to gather metrics.
