---
layout: post
title: Start of a journey
excerpt: "GSoC 2014 Week 1."
modified: 2014-05-26
tags: [intro, tutorial, gsoc2014, week1]
comments: true
---

## Abstract

This year I applied for the second time to GSoC programme and finally I submitted a successful application. I am a GSoC participant and contributor to [Monkey](http://monkey-project.com/) project, a light and fast http server.

As part of our summer GSoC experience at Monkey project, accepted students were required to start a blog and make a blog post regarding the made progress every week. This being my first blog (powered by jekyll and github pages), I do not have any blogging experience, so I find this a great opportunity to learn a few new things.

So, the first week of GSoC passed and... my progress is close to zero. But there is a reason to that. All my exams were scheduled for this week, so all my efforts were focused to studying. Obviously, first thing was to inform my mentor about my situation, which is an important ingredient for good collaboration and communication. Fortunately, my mentors are some comprehensive guys :).

## GSoC Application

In absence of technical information related to Monkey, I decided to go non-technical and share some ideas I had after learning I got accepted to GSoC, given the fact that I have both negative (I got rejected two years ago) and positive experience. And yes, I am aware there are a lot of advices and documentation out there on this subject.

There are two major steps in GSoC application:

#### Choose a project

Each year there are a lot of organizations (180-190) accepted, for which one can apply. Finding a suitable project is, IMO, not an easy task. Also, although students are allowed to apply to multiple projects (and organizations can not see how many proposals you did submit, if I'm correct), it is unrealistic to write (good) applications for more than 2 or 3 projects. For me, an ideal project would be one that has interesting tasks, that would allow me to get some new skills, while I would still be able to accomplish it.

#### Write a proposal

-   *Go to getting started page and check suggested ideas*

There you can usually find detailed information about the application requirements, guides etc, so be sure to read it. Seriously. I observed a lot of people tend to ignore documentation.

-   *Contact your mentor and community*

Find a mentor for your idea and ask for guidance. Annoy him. Let him know you are there and you are determined.

-   *Get involved*

Some projects require that you have some contributions (implement small features or fix minor bugs) prior applying, some do not. You could also ask the mentor for some tasks.

-   *Write the proposal*

Lot of technical details can be provided by the mentor. Communicate with him while writing your application and ask for feedback. Key points are to expose your ideas clearly and talk to the point.

It is important to do the above steps **in time**, not a few hours before the deadline. [Here](http://blog.monkey-project.com/gsoc-2014-students-applications/) is an example of the impression late proposals usually make.

One last thing that comes to my mind is that, considering the multitude of projects, there are different circumstances and factors that could influence whether a proposal would be successful or not. While there is undoubtedly an element of chance involved, make sure you did the best from your part.

## Contributing to Monkey

In the upcoming weeks I will focus on improving the Monkey's shared library, which will include design and performance analysis and adding python bindings for it. The project has a clean codebase and nice documentation, so I am very excited to start working and hopefully I will come with more detailed and technical blog posts.
