---
layout: post
title: Monkey week 11
excerpt: "GSoC 2014 Week 11."
modified: 2014-7-27
tags: [week11, gsoc2014]
comments: true
---

This a descriptive post about how to use the results of my work up to this moment. I tried to make it as simple as possible from a user point of view. More technical details are hidden through previous weekly blogposts :)

In order to walk through the stuff below, a copy of my repository is needed. To get it:

    $ git clone https://github.com/kaspersky/monkey.git
    $ cd monkey/
    $ git fetch
    $ git checkout ldpreload

## Stats

The main source code for the stats interface is found in files `include/monkey/mk_stats.h` and `src/mk_stats.h`

Stats are triggered by configure options:

    $ export CFLAGS=-DSTATS_ALL
    $ ./configure --malloc-libc --enable-shared --stats
    $ make

The result of the `--stats` option is a wrapper library `libstats.so`. The `worker-info.c` test is a good example of how it can be used.

    $ cd tests/lib/
    $ ./run-tests.sh worker-info.c

This will compile the test to `bin/worker-info` and run it. Let's run it manually:

    $ bin/worker-info
    Stat info for worker: 29762
    mk_session_create        :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_session_get           :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_method_get       :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_request_end      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_range_parse      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_init             :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_get_connection  :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_remove_client   :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_stage_run      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_read     :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_write    :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_header_send           :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_read             :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_write            :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds

This output is expected. The libstats library was not involved. Let's do it again:

    $ LD_PRELOAD=../../src/libstats.so bin/worker-info

    Stat info for worker: 29985
    mk_session_create        :       45 times:   1325119 nanoseconds
    mk_session_get           :      225 times:    196260 nanoseconds
    mk_http_method_get       :       45 times:    141581 nanoseconds
    mk_http_request_end      :       45 times:    334461 nanoseconds
    mk_http_range_parse      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_init             :       45 times:   3696171 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_get_connection  :      270 times:    253631 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_remove_client   :       45 times:   1885570 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_stage_run      :      225 times:   3505511 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_read     :       90 times:    198454 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_write    :       90 times:    158884 nanoseconds
    mk_header_send           :       45 times:   1204124 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_read             :       90 times:   4070665 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_write            :       90 times:   8230547 nanoseconds

The libstats library contains function wrappers for certain Monkey internal routines. Using the `LD_PRELOAD` mechanism, the library is loaded before Monkey, and the wrappers from it are used instead the actual Monkey definitions. I choosed this mechanism at the time because it is less intrusive, that is it doesn't impact the Monkey code.

Measuring all functions at once is a slight source of overhead. I made sure one can specify functions selectively. Just use instead of `export CFLAGS=-DSTATS_ALL`, in the beginning, this, for example:

    $ export CFLAGS="-DMK_SCHED_GET_CONNECTION -DMK_CONN_READ"

After running the `worker-info` test again the results are:

    Stat info for worker: 31691
    mk_session_create        :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_session_get           :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_method_get       :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_request_end      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_range_parse      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_http_init             :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_get_connection  :      246 times:    213550 nanoseconds
    mk_sched_remove_client   :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_stage_run      :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_read     :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_plugin_event_write    :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_header_send           :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_read             :       82 times:   1687554 nanoseconds
    mk_conn_write            :        0 times:         0 nanoseconds

## Python bindings

The source code for the python bindings lives in the `lib/python/` directory. To get all things working, first the library must be compiled. The creation of the python module is triggered by the `--python` option:

    $ ./configure --malloc-libc --enable-shared --python --libdir=/usr/ --prefix=/usr/
    Please install cython for building the monkey python module

Oops. To build the python extension, the following requirements must be satisfied: `python`, `python-dev`, `cython`, so install them first. After that, compile the C Monkey library:

    $ make

Also, the library needs to be installed to a system (or any other visible) location.

    # make install

It is necessary because the python interpreter will access the C version of the library when the user will invoke Monkey from python code, so the interpreter must know where it is located.

    $ cd lib/python/
    $ python setup.py build_ext -i

This will compile a python extension, the python bindings for the Monkey library. After the execution of the command, a `monkey.so` shared object is created in the local directory. This object is the python module, in order to use it, it must lay somewhere in the [PYTHONPATH](https://docs.python.org/2/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH). Let's install the python extension to a system location:

    # python setup.py install

Now, Monkey can be used from python:

    $ python
    >>> import monkey

If the the above does not bring an error, the installation was successful. Let's test it:

    $ cd ../../examples/
    $ python quiz.py
    Press enter to stop the server...

Now type `http://localhost:2001` in a browser and hit enter.

All available examples and tests for the C library (`examples/*.py` and `tests/lib/*.py) have been successfully ported to python, so you can check them for more examples.
