---
layout: post
title: Pass callback functions from python to c using cython
excerpt: "GSoC 2014 Week 9."
modified: 2014-7-21
tags: [week9, gsoc2014]
comments: true
---

One of the difficulties in implementing python bindings for the library is to pass callbacks from python to c. This means that the user can define a python routine and call a set_callbackfunction, exposed by the c library, which only registers the routine. This routine will be called at the right time, internally to the library.

For example, one callback looks like this:

{% highlight c %}
typedef int (*cb_ipcheck)(const char *ip); // callback definition

int mklib_callback_set(mklib_ctx ctx, const enum mklib_cb cb, void *func) // set
{% endhighlight %}

The cython implementation is similar to:

{% highlight cython %}
cdef int c_cb_ipcheck(char *ip):
    global c_cb_ipcheck_fn
    return c_cb_ipcheck_fn(ip)

def set_callback(self, cb, f):
    global c_cb_ipcheck_fn
    c_cb_ipcheck_fn = f
    return mklib_callback_set(self._server, MKCB_IPCHECK, <void *> c_cb_ipcheck)
{% endhighlight %}

So there is a wrapper function around `mklib_callback_set`, accessed from python. It takes the python function, which is an object, and stores it in a global variable.

Notice that this specific function object can not be passed directly to the c library. Instead, it is defined a `c_cb_ipcheck`, using `cdef`, which will access the previously stored callable. The functions declared with `cdef` are fully C compatible, so it will be registered as the library callback.

This also allows to freely convert any c parameters to other python representation (in this case, char * is automatically handled by cython).
