---
layout: post
title: Reworked stats interface
excerpt: "GSoC 2014 Week 6."
modified: 2014-06-29
tags: [week6, gsoc2014]
comments: true
---

### Thread local storage

This week I changed the implementation of the stats interface, eliminating some shortcomings of it. Previously, the stats data structure was attached to a `sched_list_node` instance. It was stored as [thread specific data](http://infohost.nmt.edu/~eweiss/222_book/222_book/0201433079/ch12lev1sec6.html), and was accessed used a lot of `get_threadspecific` calls.

Now, the worker statistics are stored separately using a [thread local storage](http://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc-3.3/gcc/Thread-Local.html) global variable. This can be directly accessed from any monkey worker function, reducing the counters interface only to:

    STATS_COUNTER_START(function_name)
    STATS_COUNTER_STOP(function_name)

After running the profiling test, it appears that the performance is the same.

### LD_PRELOAD

One annoying thing about the `STATS_COUNTER_STOP` statement was that it had to be inserted before every return point of a function. Also, the statements had to be inserted directly into Monkey regular code (although they absolutely no impact if switched off).

I learned recently about a feature of the linker, `LD_PRELOAD`, which makes possible to load a library before the main program. Using this, I created [function wrappers](https://github.com/kaspersky/monkey/blob/ldpreload/src/mk_stats.c), e.g.:

{% highlight c %}
#if defined(STATS_ALL) || defined(MK_SESSION_CREATE)
struct client_session *mk_session_create(int socket, struct sched_list_node *sched)
{
    struct client_session *ret;
    STATS_COUNTER_START(mk_session_create);
    ret = __mk_session_create(socket, sched);
    STATS_COUNTER_STOP(mk_session_create);
    return ret;
}
#endif
{% endhighlight %}

The file `mk_stats.c` is compiled into the shared object `libstats.so` and preloaded. Using `__attribute__((constructor))` and `__attribute__((destructor))`, when loaded, it opens the `libmonkey.so` library and loads the needed symbols, discarding them when the program terminates.

Also, using an exported `CFLAGS` shell variable, it is possible to either gather statistics from all supported functions at once, or to enable them selectively, say, when there is interest only in `mk_session_create` or `mk_http_init` etc.
